I think every gamer can relate to
this ah much better and with no downside
at
all okay one downside but the other ways
to silence your gaming PC or your
console take a lot of time money and
space that is unless you're willing to
get a little creative here we go now
guys this isn't a woodworking channel so
we're going to keep keep the goals
pretty straightforward number one is we
want to keep this simple enough that
anyone could build it with basic tools
two I don't want to spend a ton of money
and number three I want to significantly
quiet down my computer without harming
performance or resorting to Exotic
measures like sticking in another room I
just hope I bought enough wood units to
complete both our project and the segue
to our sponsor seic you know seic for
their reliable and energy efficient
power supplies so snag your vertex
gx1000 right now by clicking the link in
the
[Music]
description here's what I'm thinking
rather than building a fully enclosed
box I want to make two identical
u-shaped shells that have these slots
for air to move through them then I just
slide them around our PC like so leaving
a little Gap put a in on it and voila
quieter computer to keep costs down our
box is designed to be caught from a
single 4x8 sheet of plywood or whatever
other sheet good your budget allows for
those of you watching in not America
that's 1,220 mm by
2,440 but I'm going to stick with
freedom units for the rest of this video
so that my Southern neighbors don't try
to liberate the studio now most building
supply stores will cut down large sheets
for you for a nominal fee so we have
them cut ours into quarters to make them
easier to transport
and to make them a little bit easier to
work with safely if you guys want to
build along at home by the way we're
going to have our plans on the Forum
which will be Link in the video
description our first cuts are to remove
a 1x 2T piece off of two of our quarter
panels that's going to give us our
sidewalls and the outside end pieces now
it's worth noting guys we're in a fancy
Shop but you don't need a fancy shop to
do this a circular saw jigsa or even a
Handa can get these Cuts done pretty
cleanly just be patient measure twice
cut once and all of that jazz with that
said fancy tools do help sometimes and a
nail gun like this one is a great way to
attack wood pieces together before you
secure them with screws you guys really
did pick the scuffed piece of plywood on
the face of the Earth hey um what's up
with that wasn't me thanks Shaggy how
good are you with a nail gun never used
one before all
right okay wherever your nails go you're
you're going to want to make sure that
you pre-drill some pilot holes before
screwing the panels together with uh
your LT screwdriver or more
realistically with your drill since you
were already holding that and that's the
real tool for
this man I put that nail right where I'd
want to put my first screw yeah I you
might say I screwed up Pro tip by the
way guys if you're not sure what size
bit to use to pre-drill it's actually
listed on the side of the package with
our third piece of plywood we're going
to make our inside ends each of these is
going to get a slot cut into it either
to allow passive air flow through our
box or for bonus credit to mount some
fans we didn't Factor fans into our
budget though so we're going to go with
the slot and the easiest way to cut a
slot is by drilling a starter hole then
using a
jigsaw if you don't have a jigsaw you
can use a coping saw to do this by hand
but it'll probably end up looking
like hey I don't know where you're going
you that was actually me but to be fair
I voted to use the laser but Jordan said
no those are too expensive that is a
fair point we're trying to keep this
affordable but if you don't mind
spending a little bit more money a whole
saw can be had for about 15 bucks for
the drill that you're probably still
holding and you can just put a few of
those in there and man with fans that
would be sick anyway
rby
thanks you can cut for a bit while I
cut we're both cutting
you're still rolling so I'll roll
[Music]
too now it's time for a quick test to
see if we're onto something here our
gaming rig is sitting at
about 50 DB from this location and this
is not a scientific test by any stretch
but let's go ahead and take our second
piece of P
it and put it there 3 DB however on this
side we drop more like 7 to 8 and that's
before we add anything to deal with the
reflections that are allowing sound to
escape from our box not to mention the
gaping hole on the top while we were at
home desperate we came up with a plan
for that too this stuff is really cool
it's a fiberboard sound installation
that's made out of recycled wood and
before all you building material nerds
go but lius
I know it's only readily available in
Canada but there are alternative State
Side just look for a product called
sound stop from Blue Ridge fiberboard
big home improvement stores should carry
it but if not they'll probably have some
generic acoustic insulation soundboard
that'll also work just be aware that
both of those options are thinner than
sonopan so they may be slightly less
effective you can use power tools to cut
this stuff but we find it works pretty
well with just a nice sharp blade and a
utility knife perfect slap her in and as
for sizing our main concern
uh-oh is getting a good friction
fit nice sorry our main concern is
making sure that any hard surface that
sound could bounce off of is Co in this
stuff 11 by 24 for our next
one oh this is kind of short
Jordan that's okay all right if you're
good with it I'm good with
it oh you put a hole in it to the cables
that makes sense is it the world's most
elegant solution yes a little bit no if
they wanted that they could have tuned
into DIY perk's version of
this oh wait he doesn't have one
meanwhile he's watching this going you
know a bloody boy they I would have done
it better you know
whoa whoa whoa whoa hold on everyone
quiet for a second quiet for a
second damn that's a mic drop get it cuz
it's a microphone I dropped it I
probably shouldn't have technically but
okay it's as quiet on the open side now
as it was on the closed side before now
okay I'm going to be about the same
distance okay let's see this
side holy crap we're down to about 40
wow
and it gets even better to prevent hot
air from just recirculating inside of
our box and encourage fresh air to be
pulled in through the front of our
baffle and then expelled from the back
we're going to add these little foam
strips you can use basically anything
you have lying around as long as you can
pack it in here at the front oh dang no
I'm not going to I'm not even going to
get a full two pieces in there okay
front's all sealed up oh yeah I can feel
the flow those fans could end up working
a little bit harder
but
wow damn I don't even need the decimal
meter do you hear
that
damn wow we still have some work to do
cleaning up the aesthetic we have some
ideas involving a vinyl wrap and uh oh I
don't know maybe putting the sides here
on the edges like we had originally
intended but let's do a quick after
test that is a flipping huge reduction
and we may be even getting to the point
where we are below the noise floor of
this room hold on I'm going to go around
to this corner and then we'll pull the
plug and see what the actual noise floor
is in
here we're below 35 all right kill the
power
we're still marginally above the noise
floor but not by much huge Improvement
the question is how much does it impact
thermals let's run it overnight and find
[Music]
out okay
it looks kind of cool
now I mean don't look that close no back
up back
up wait wait wait we're reacting to how
it looks but it's on yep it's
on now when I didn't note the scale of
this graph I was like oh wow GPU
temperature sure went up a lot no but
once I saw
it yeah this is great half a degree
right like
this is legitimately as quiet if not
better than having your PC in a
completely different room okay I had
some idea that this was going to work
you know way better than we thought it
otherwise why would I greenl the project
yeah but that's that's insane but this
is flipping awesome and all told for
somewhere in the neighborhood of $40 to
$100 and what's cool about this is this
principle can apply to all kinds of
noise making things in your life in fact
the real inspiration for this was when
we had a Transformer that was on one of
our sets a number of years ago and I was
looking for a way to quiet it down and I
was like oh well could we use like these
principles huge difference I just wasn't
sure if it would apply to a PC so
effectively hey Sebastian check this out
this is Sebastian from the creater
Warehouse engineering team okay
we I am the tallest Sebastian uh we we
made a box and you might not be that
impressed until I go like this
ooh and it's gone it's gone that's
pretty good he's not that impressed but
he's kind of course The Thermals don't
tell us the performance story let's have
a look at our GPU clock speeds over time
okay that looks pretty darn stable
that's great 85 MHz variance now that we
know performance isn't impacted it's
time to bring our setup into our in
progress DIY sound isolation chamber
it's not perfect but it's a fair bit
quieter than the workshop let's start by
measuring the sound
floor about 33 I guess you'll just kind
of have to take my word for it one of
the things that's in progress is our
mount for our deciel meter one moment
please all right Jordan want to turn the
system back on yeah we're at 100% fan
Perfect Dude 42 43 DB from a meter
away that's a loud computer yeah
man you'll even be able to hear this on
the mic I bet ready one two
3 okay
everybody back down to barely above the
noise floor see the thing is I'd love to
just put the meter closer and to do a
fudge test you totally can do that we
could have done
that but technically you're supposed to
be like a meter away so in a nutshell
it's way quieter and thanks for watching
and check out this message from our
sponsor acronis if you run a business
your it infrastructure is probably the
backbone of your entire operation
whether you have one location or
multiple locations with aonis cyber
protect you can relax knowing that
you're covered by Cutting Edge backup
security and Disaster Recovery
technology all integrated into one
platform their lightning recovery is
great for multi-side environment and is
powered by Machine learning to keep your
data safe you can manage remote
endpoints run vulnerability assessments
and handle patch management all from one
place plus with oneclick self-service
recovery anyone can fix it issues
quickly without relying on Central it so
simplify your business's data protection
and cyber security while saving money
that you would have otherwise spent
dealing with multiple vendors by
checking out a chonus cyber protect
using the link in the video description
looking back on the project if we did
this over I'd like to make it a little
on the smaller side and I think it would
have been worth the investment to go
with it even just like a pine project
board compared to the plywood that we
used then we could have put a little bit
of like I don't know Danish oil on it or
something it could have looked more like
a piece of furniture and less like a
piece of debrand skin who make good
skins you know anyway if you guys
enjoyed this video why not check out the
one where I put a computer in a
completely separate room in order to
achieve much the same effect this
is kind of better